they're Earth's Mightiest Heroes
Marvel's The Avengers have saved the
planet from alien invasion the Norse god
of mischief and now they face the angry
robot killing machine Ultron the
Avengers combined amazing abilities with
some pretty amazing signs let's start
with everyone's favorite smartypants
billionaire
no not Elon Musk but Tony Stark better
known as Iron Man after his original
iron suit of armor because irons heavy
and dense Starks OG suit would have
weighed around 150 pounds which is an
exactly ideal when you're flying around
stark says he later upgraded to a gold
titanium alloy but that would actually
kind of make things worse that's it
we'll probably weigh around 350 pounds
which might work for the Hulk but not
for Tony Stark
let's have Rachel explain Starks suit is
probably made of a nickel titanium alloy
called nitinol it's strong but light and
can be reformed after taking damage
there may also be some graphite
reinforced with carbon fiber which can
take a lot of heat useful if Iron Man
doesn't want to singe his feet using
those rocket boots the power source
inside Starks suit has changed over the
years the arc reactor that he designs is
actually a miniature nuclear power plant
in Iron Man 2 the arc reactor depends on
palladium but we learned that the
Palladium is slowly poisoning him so
stark does what any brilliant scientist
does he creates a new element you've
done that before right Stark uses his
homemade particle accelerator to smash
the nuclei of atoms together to make a
whole new type of atom it seems like
movie magic but that's actually pretty
standard procedure for manufacturing new
elements scientists have made 20
synthetic elements this way so it's not
unbelievable that Stark would have made
new elements to power his suit but
that's enough about eccentric
billionaires let's stock Captain America
and Black Widow according to the marvel
comics both Black Widow and Captain
America have peak human abilities
they're super strong they have super
quick reflexes tons of stamina and they
age really slowly they can also heal
pretty quickly but not as quickly as a
certain other Harry Marvel hero how
might the super healing work you may ask
well it probably has to do with the
white blood cells in normal healing a
type of white blood cell called a
macrophage fights infections and
oversees the repair process macrophages
also send out chemical messengers called
growth factor
helped repair wounds all these steps can
take between two to five days and
regular humans but happened faster in
Black Widow and Captain America their
macrophages could be super productive
pumping out growth factors to heal
wounds more quickly souped up white
blood cells aren't the Cape's
only defense he also has an awesome
shield capsid shield protects him from
everything
bullets grenades lasers supervillain
death rays and so on most of that
protection comes from good old steel
Selah strong and rigid allowing Captain
a throw shield and have it knock off
multiple bad guys before it comes back
to him but there's more to the shield
than just steel conventional steel has a
lot of super properties but it's not a
great shock absorber that's why the
steel of the cap shield contains an
imaginary mineral called vibranium this
material can absorb a near infinite
amount of vibrational energy without
getting too hot or melting but where is
all that energy going well in the first
Avengers movie we see Thor's hammer
strike the captain shield the shockwave
knocks them all of the ground but the
shield is just fine when Thor's hammer
hits the shield you see a huge flash of
blue light implying that vibranium
converts vibrational energy to light
energy Hey after all they couldn't put
it in a movie if it wasn't true so there
you go fearless viewers keep fighting
the fight for science and nice to Saipan
for helping us make this video happen be
sure to check out jim kelly OSes book
the physics of superheroes for more
information we'll put a link in the
description have an idea or suggestion
for a video you'd like to see us make
let's do in the comments or hit us up on
Twitter and Facebook
don't forget friends don't let friends
miss out on awesome videos like share
and subscribe people we do it for you
you